= Introduction =

This page documents possible WML commands that are available when an event is triggered.

= debug_console =

Will suspend the game, and open a prompt on the game's terminal. On this prompt you can type in any formula and it will be evaluated in the context of the event, and the result displayed. This is, of course, entirely for debugging purposes and should not be used in user-facing scenarios.

= debug =

Will evaluate the string formula and output it to the console, with the word 'DEBUG' in front.

 * text: The text to output on the console.

= destroy_party =

Will destroy all the parties that match the given filter.

 * filter: The formula which each party is tested against. Those which evaluate to true will be destroyed.

= if =

Will evaluate the given condition. If it is true, all the commands within all children named {{{[then]}}} will be evaluated, otherwise all the commands within all children named {{{[else]}}} will be evaluated.

 * condition: The formula which is evaluated to decide between executing {{{[then]}}} or {{{[else]}}}

= scripted_moves =

Will give a party a script of moves to execute. The party will move from location to location according to the script.

 * filter: filter which determines if a party is the party to apply the script to or not.
 * {{{[loc]}}}: a waypoint in the script. Contains 'x' and 'y' which are the location to move to.

= execute_script =

Will freeze all parties in the world, except those who have scripted moves set. Those which do have scripted moves set will move until they have completed their scripted moves. When all parties have completed their scripted moves, the event 'finish_script' will be generated, with the name of the script, and then play will continue as normal.

Generally if you want to use a script to move some characters, and then when they have moved, say something, you would run the scripted_moves command, and then the execute_script command. Then you would catch finish_script and add the commands to make the characters speak.

 * script: The name of the script. This will be given to finish_script.

= modify_objects =

Will modify the objects given by 'objects'. 

= party_chat =

Displays a message from one of the characters in the PC party. This message will be displayed on the screen for a short amount of time, and should generally be non-critical to progress of the game.

 * text: A text string which contains the message to display.
 * speaker: The character who speaks. This may be null, in which case no message will be displayed.
 * delay: The number of milliseconds to delay the speech. This is useful if you want to make a sequence of speech by different characters.